# Northwestern

“I know that I know nothing.” -The Socratic Paradox

My deepest fear is "not that [I am] inadequate", but that I am “powerful beyond measure” and I can't properly realize my own potential. Not being able to gain the right advantages or not quite making it to my next small goal just bother me. I've failed a lot in life, which I'm grateful for, but it's also led me to believe that sometimes maybe I don't want success as much as I should.

At this point, I've set my heart and soul to pursuing a career in the startup tech scene just because every time I learn something new within the field, I feel like a child again (it’s a wonderful feeling). The constant change I’ll have to go through also resonates well with me since I don’t like to focus on the same thing for too long and I’ll never be able to claim I’m an expert for too long.

Then some days I feel silly for wanting to pursue a field with such ambition given that my family and relatives alike come from such humble backgrounds. When you’re a first generation Hispanic female interested in coding, it raises some eyebrows at family gatherings. Not because it’s such a terrible idea, but because it’s just generally unexpected that people like me will ever stay long in this kind of field. Damned lies and statistics, indeed.

To mitigate this fear, I have to reassure myself constantly whenever I'm dealing with something difficult academically or technically that the mastery of any field requires a grand amount of time, passion, and dedication. I try instead to view my academic struggles as small obstacles I have to either overcome or diverge from by finding a sub-field within that struggle more suited to my skill-set.

For example, I've come to understand that I'm not terribly great at math, but when it comes to coding, I enjoy it because you’re taking the algorithms already built by someone else and combining/tweaking them to form your own high-level product. So when it comes to math, I focus more on how I can leverage the algorithms of others to create my own special derivative. If this sounds unorthodox to you, you’re probably not much of a programmer (no offense).

In other words, if I don't feel like I'm on the path to contributing to society in some sort of meaningful way, I start feeling extremely desolate and just scared. What legacy do I want to leave behind?

My prior academic history will tell you I’ve always tried to pursue typical life events at an earlier age and am constantly trying to involve myself with the non-familiar. I entered primary school earlier, took numerous college classes through dual enrollment all throughout high school starting at the age of 13, ended up graduating high school at the top of my class at an age younger than the majority and now intend to receive my master’s by the age of 21. For me, it’s never been the rush, but the thrill of the experiences I’ve gone through that have compelled me to be crazy enough to seek them out time and time again.

Even now, I’m juggling a part time job with a top software consulting firm in my local area while taking a full load of five classes my last semester of senior year. I’ve already won scholarships/the opportunity to attend several major league hackathons like TreeHacks at Stanford and famous tech conferences like React.js Conf and DeveloperWeek in San Francisco (to name a few) throughout this semester. For the first time, I was the speaker for a tech conference this past November and have two more events lined up where I’ll be speaking about my experience with JS (JavaScript) coding bootcamps and how to get started as a developer. All this while I still try to build and design upon smaller side projects from time to time.

This sort of schedule wasn’t hacked out spontaneously. It took a while to build up my online reputation and technical skills to get this far. It also took a while to get over the initial fear of feeling as though I represent my entire race and gender every time I speak up at these tech events due to the general lack of diversity. But as I mentioned earlier, being uncomfortable can excite me in a way I still don’t entirely understand myself.

The reason I’m applying to Northwestern is because I’m not ready to stop learning (to put it simply). While attending Fullstack Academy this past summer, I realized how little most of my fellow peers knew about design when creating web applications. Even though their apps would be technically brilliant, they would completely ignore the user experience which in some cases led to a very poorly designed product with little to no value in real life. This experience has inspired me to apply to the MS EDI program since I’ve recognized the importance of great design for quite a while now and I feel I’m more passionate about product design than I am even with programming. Ideally, with the skills I’ll learn through the program, I too will be able to inspire others in the tech scene and show them that yes, Latinas can indeed develop, design, and lead within the tech industry. In any industry, really.

Naturally, I can’t tell you my entire life story with just two pages, no matter how much I manage to decrease the spacing. My private journal has roughly 170,000 words which should provide a perspective on how many different layers/personas I mentally store away. Like anyone on this dying planet of ours, I can only be accurately represented with the complexity of an entire galaxy (or perhaps just a solar system).

Regardless, the opportunity to join the Northwestern community would be quite amazing. Since the EDI curriculum focuses on practical real-life applications in product design, I know my time will be well-spent. And that’s what really matters, ultimately.

## On Diversity

The idea behind diversity in big tech companies is making sure the company stays innovative. Diversity in any situation - be it in a biological, financial, mythical, etc., usually benefits all parties. And innovation means progress and it means profits. In a TED talk by Melody Hobson, the president of Ariel Investments, she urges companies nationally to be “color brave”, and not “color blind”. Ultimately, Hobson is urging that all companies become brave enough to acknowledge that racial inequalities exist (especially in tech companies, obviously), and that they need to go about trying to fix those discrepancies.
This question is personal. I recognize myself as a mature Hispanic female majoring in Computer Science who has traveled extensively and has experienced or seen first hand acts of racism in all facets of our tiny earth. I’m well aware at this point in my life that racism in whatever region always tarnishes that region’s image and costs that region’s economy more than people are aware of. It damages the sympathy of those who have to undergo it as well, and the harmful process ends up looking like a figure 8, infinite in nature and never-ending.
Even so, I’m hopeful. Google, along with a few other giant tech industries, has already decided to take a step forward in the aspect of diversity. Diversity in hiring makes for a wider range of ideas or and it’s inclusive of more and more people everyday.
The conferences I’ve been to through school so far always try to address this problem of the lack of diversity in computer science and how it can be improved. This “perfect storm”, someone called it. The big number to remember here is 2043. That’s the year, according to projections, that non-Hispanic whites will become America’s minority. The leaders, the shakers, the doers for America’s tech giants -they’re going to have to come from somewhere and it’s not going to be ideal if they all look the same. Perhaps that’s why this issue of diversity has started to surface more recently, they realize they’re going to have to make sure their products appeal to a wider consumer base and expand their startup portfolios to include more minorities. It all comes down to not just diversity, then, but diversity based on perspective. If tech giants don’t increase diversity, if they simply ignore the fact that everyone looks the same and casually cast it aside, they will suffer financially and in terms of their brand appeal to minority consumers (e.g., U2 album and Apple). That’s diversity in perspective.
The problem comes down to access and education. Underrepresented minorities have a historical history of not being able to even put their foot in the door when it comes to high quality classrooms and financial support (e.g., funding from venture capitalists and college admissions). If enough serious implementations are acted on in regards to these two main issues, we should start to see more people from any background coming into STEM fields in general.

## Prompts

> Pick a product that you think is well designed and explain why. Do the same with a product you think is poorly designed.

I believe the tool Product Hunt is extremely well designed. It's clear they chose a theme early on and stuck with it so that their website could maintain consistency and clarity. Besides being a ridiculously handy tool, Product Hunt knows exactly how to display their information right! Popular collections are limited to three possibilities and the products themselves are easy to browse through and up vote. When you click on a product, it's also nice to see the little window pop up instead of being redirected to a new page. I can easily see how someone can get lost in it (positively) which will keep the user engaged for a while. It feels very clean and fresh and I really like the medium grey text for descriptors. The only thing that is someone limiting is that you can only login through Twitter but even this I feel has its benefits.

Now, on the other hand, If you go to the website for Berkshire Hathaway, one of the most successful multinational conglomerates in the world, you'll find that even if you asked the person with perhaps the worst eye for design in the world, it's pretty clear this web site could use some remodeling. Like, a lot. It's almost like their website wasn't even updated since the 90's. First off, there are only underlined pieces of text to serve as links. There are also absolutely no visuals to paint a picture of the company. The formatting is just behind in its time, as it doesn't even use a navbar for the various links or proper ad placement for Geico. Oh, and the font sizing isn't quite ideal either. The all caps is always difficult to read. A nice 'hero' image would have been nice to 'paint a picture of the company'. People like pictures and it's nice to have a visual that relates to that. Another thing I personally do not like is the Widows and Ophans. Examples would be the 3rd bullet down and the last bullet. If the designer would have broken them/kept the line length to where the 5th bullet ends, they would have filled their lines better. Indeed, for such a powerful company, this is a terribly weak website.

> If you could spend one year solving one problem, what would it be and why?

I would fully flesh out a project I started a while ago called RankMe, which is a web app that scrapes review data from various sites (Course Report, Facebook, Google+, Switchup, Techendo, Quora, and Yelp) and social score data from various sites as well (AngelList, Facebook, Google+, LinkedIn, Quora, Twitter) and ranks them based on their social and review score.

The reason I want to work on this app is because the coding bootcamp industry is exploding and it's becoming harder and harder for students to verify if a program is a scam or is actually very high-value. With RankMe, users wouldn't have to scramble all over the Internet to find the overall reviews and social scores for each bootcamp. Right now, the crawler I made works with most of the websites I mentioned already but if I was given a year, I'd be able to make it work for all the websites and really flesh it out so it could become a practical tool for all potential coding bootcamp students. The reason I feel it would take a year to really make this app perfect is because a lot of the reviews are duplicates so I would have to create or implement an existing algorithm in order to calculate the number of unique reviews from each provider so that the score is calculated more honestly.

You're welcome to view this small side project [here](http://github.com/fvcproductions/rankme).

