# Northeastern

I've set my heart and soul to pursuing a career in the startup tech scene just because every time I learn something new within the field, I feel like a child again (it's a wonderful feeling). The constant change I'll have to go through also resonates well with me since I don't like to focus on the same thing for too long and I'll never be able to claim I'm an expert for too long.

My prior academic history will tell you I've always tried to pursue typical life events at an earlier age and am constantly trying to involve myself with the non-familiar. I entered primary school earlier, took numerous college classes through dual enrollment all throughout high school starting at the age of 13, ended up graduating high school at the top of my class at an age younger than the majority and now intend to receive my master's by the age of 21. For me, it's never been the rush, but the thrill of the experiences I've gone through that have compelled me to be crazy enough to seek them out time and time again.

Even now, I'm juggling a part time job with a top software consulting firm in my local area while taking a full load of five classes my last semester of senior year. I've already won scholarships/the opportunity to attend several major league hackathons like TreeHacks at Stanford and famous tech conferences like React.js Conf and DeveloperWeek in San Francisco (to name a few) throughout this semester. For the first time, I was the speaker for a tech conference this past November and have two more events lined up where I'll be speaking about my experience with JS (JavaScript) coding bootcamps and how to get started as a developer. All this while I still try to build and design upon smaller side projects from time to time.

This sort of schedule wasn't hacked out spontaneously. It took a while to build up my online reputation and technical skills to get this far. It also took a while to get over the initial fear of feeling as though I represent my entire race and gender every time I speak up at these tech events due to the general lack of diversity. But as I mentioned earlier, being uncomfortable can excite me in a way I still don't entirely understand myself.

The reason I'm applying to Northeastern's ALIGN program is because I'm not ready to stop learning (to put it simply). While attending Fullstack Academy this past summer, I realized I wanted to attend a program that would provide the same experience Fullstack provided — a very immersive learning program that was designed for high-impact and speed. In other words, I'm excited to get into the workplace but I recognize the importance of having the experience of having a high-value master's program that integrates both business and technology beforehand. Ideally, with the skills I'll learn through the program, I too will be able to inspire others in the tech scene and show them that yes, Latinas can indeed code and lead within the tech industry. In any industry, really.

Indeed, the opportunity to join the Northeastern community would be quite amazing. Since the curriculum focuses on practical real-life applications in the tech industry, I know my time will be well-spent. And that's what really matters.

## Prompt

> Describe one of the hardest problems you have ever solved in a professional or educational setting. Explain how you approached, analyzed, and solved the problem.

The problem is diversity in tech. It's a pretty big obstacle that will take many years to truly overcome and I've experienced the consequences of this problem firsthand.

The idea behind diversity in big tech companies is making sure the company stays innovative. Diversity in any situation - be it in a biological, financial, mythical, etc., usually benefits all parties. And innovation means progress and it means profits.

In a TED talk by Melody Hobson, the president of Ariel Investments, she urges companies nationally to be “color brave”, and not “color blind”. Ultimately, Hobson is urging that all companies become brave enough to acknowledge that racial inequalities exist (especially in tech companies, obviously), and that they need to go about trying to fix those discrepancies.

This problem is personal. I recognize myself as a mature Hispanic female majoring in Computer Science who has traveled extensively and has experienced or seen first hand acts of racism in all facets of our tiny earth. I'm well aware at this point in my life that racism in whatever region always tarnishes that region's image and costs that region's economy more than people are aware of. It damages the sympathy of those who have to undergo it as well, and the harmful process ends up looking like a figure 8, infinite in nature and never-ending. Just recently in fact, I was speaking at a local tech conference and was the only female minority amongst all 10+ speakers. Not only would I have to represent my entire gender, but also my entire race. It was a scary feeling to have such a heavy and unwanted responsibility.

Even so, I'm hopeful. Google, along with a few other giant tech industries, have already decided to take a step forward in the aspect of diversity. Diversity in hiring makes for a wider range of ideas or and it's inclusive of more and more people everyday.

The conferences I've been to through school so far always try to address this problem of the lack of diversity in computer science and how it can be improved. This “perfect storm”, someone called it. The big number to remember here is 2043. That's the year, according to projections, that non-Hispanic whites will become America's minority. The leaders, the shakers, the doers for America's tech giants -they're going to have to come from somewhere and it's not going to be ideal if they all look the same. Perhaps that's why this issue of diversity has started to surface more recently, they realize they're going to have to make sure their products appeal to a wider consumer base and expand their startup portfolios to include more minorities. It all comes down to not just diversity, then, but diversity based on perspective. If tech giants don't increase diversity, if they simply ignore the fact that everyone looks the same and casually cast it aside, they will suffer financially and in terms of their brand appeal to minority consumers (e.g., U2 album and Apple). That's diversity in perspective.

The problem comes down to access and education. Underrepresented minorities have a historical history of not being able to even put their foot in the door when it comes to high quality classrooms and financial support (e.g., funding from venture capitalists and college admissions). If enough serious implementations are acted on in regards to these two main issues, we should start to see more people from any background coming into STEM fields in general. It's a problem I hope to help solve in my future.