# Essay 7

Operation Smile (community service/volunteer work): Much of my time has been spent with Operation Smile, a worldwide children's charity organization that helps treat facial deformities. There's a five sided argument to my reasons behind my commitment: who, what, where, when, and why? It's who I can have a heart-to-heart with on child suffering. It's what inspired me to push myself until breaking point continuously, reveling in joy I was able to bring to those less fortunate. It's where I got my first leadership positions, made lifelong friends, attended a influential training workshop, and fainted in front of an entire Vietnamese surgical team after watching 4 and 1/2 surgeries. It's when I can happily interact with generous multitudes of people that define the organization and share in outlooks diversity can bring. It's why I was able to attend that 2 week long medical mission in Vietnam and why I didn't feel so guilty after fainting because I was aiding those kids overcome their understandable anxiety before they entered the OR. Really, Operation Smile is how I thrive!

The School For Field Studies (environmental studies abroad): The summer after my junior year, I decided to take a course through Boston University's School For Field Studies (#1 environmental studies abroad program for college students in the US). I decided to study “Wildlife Research Techniques” which meant I would be spending a month studying in Tanzania with college students from all over the US. I was lucky enough to be accepted to due to my past dual enrollment experience but high school, it turns out, had not yet prepared me for even the first lecture of this avant-garde experience. There I was in Lake Manyara of Tanzania learning about different types of animal dung and still completely casual about the whole situation. My Kenyan professor started picking up random lumps of dung and began comparing physical structures of various animal droppings, noting ungulates produced pellet like scat and canine/feline like animals such as hyenas and lions excreted large tubular like droppings instead. I was slightly horrified at how easily I was sighting these differences in poop. I realized then how much I appreciated the environment that I saw beauty even with dung. Yes, I know “caca” is not appealing, but beneath its brown colored decor, dung has power beyond our physical selves, and without it, our bowels would quickly go crazy and we would simply die off. I understand now that even the smallest of things can have a massive impact. Besides, if they couldn't, why is a mosquito still considered one of humanity's most treacherous creatures?

Model United Nations (academic club): As an amoeba new to MUN freshman year, I have evolved to become a full fledged heart pumping beast that enjoys the recreation and analyzation of global diplomatic studies. The world is a fascinating place and being able to get a taste of international relations and diplomacy through MUN really showed me how dialogue is so vital in any country's development and protection. As a Peruvian-American, I feel both part of the US and apart from some of its warped ideals which has made me sensitive to cultural differences Latin America and the US share. With MUN, I was finally able to come out of my shell by gaining confidence in expression, training my various delegate partners, and winning awards at local conferences. I may not want to major in anything history related but I uphold a deep appreciation for connections one can find globally through MUN and I will continue that upholding in college.