# Essay 3

One day, I hope to apply my knowledge of biological research techniques in combination with the advanced use of artificial intelligence in hope of positively benefiting humanity. By trying to attain this major goal, I have already tackled intellectual challenges. At the age of 10, I began my first high school courses with Algebra 1. At 13, I took my first college courses at Tidewater Community College, a local community college, during the summer of my freshman year. At 15, I took my first university course of General Zoology at Hampton University during the summer of sophomore year. During high school, I have taken a total of 2 AP course so far, and am currently taking 5 AP courses. For Christmas 3 years ago, I asked for a microscope and a 13 organism dissecting set to toy with so I could quench my exponentially growing curiosity relating to biology. This thirst for knowledge has yet to be subsided.

I am extremely potent when it comes to expressing myself through writing and video editing. I have worked with programs such as Adobe Premiere, Adobe After Effects, Photoshops, Final Cut Pro X, and iMovie. To say I enjoy working with movie making would be an understatement as I would definitely take any opportunity to further develop my skills in this area. I am also not too unfamiliar with scientific research. I placed first in 10th grade for a community science fair competition sponsored by the Eastern Virginia Medical School. I carried out a study of cocaine and its effects on an international and scientific level. I'm looking forward to working more with the research field of science since I enjoy executing presentations with Keynote and passing on my knowledge of a certain subject.

More recently, however, I have discovered my specific passions in science lie in bioinformatics and immunology diseases. However, a key component has been missing from my ambitious schedule- enough research experience. While I have participated in multiple research science projects in the past, I feel I could learn so much more exposed to an environment given in VBI's bioinformatics program. Not only would this program give me an opportunity to explore bioinformatics on a more specified level but I could also get a head start on brainstorming possible experimental ideas and begin exposing research papers on topics I am passionate about.

Furthermore, while this may not involve the STEM fields, I will be attending a medical mission as a student educator through Operation Smile in Vietnam during early June; Operation Smile is a non profit corporation that performs surgeries to children with cleft lips globally. This mission met my standards for travel, learning, and helping others combined all in one. Being outside typical classroom academics, I feel, is very essential to a overall great education.