# Essay 1

"I know that I know nothing."

The Socratic Paradox

What bothers me with this intellectual engagement that most institutions of higher learning claim to offer, the sort of engagement I would simply define as Socratic questioning, is that it has been limited between two organic Hominids throughout all of history until most recently. As a futurist myself though, I feel increasingly hopeful with each passing year as our paradoxically unique species discovers innovative ways to communicate with artificial intelligence. I anticipate the era where all technology feels some form of AI coding through themselves and where most machines can pass the Turing test with ease. All the same, I would like to stop anticipating and start accomplishing small feats that will provoke the much larger one of technological singularity, which is where those small bomb like feats result in this massive intelligence atomic explosion of super-intelligence emerging through technological means.

Words of coding inspire me, but words of wisdom provide me a medium to fabricate what resulted from the inspiration. At Hawaii Pacific University, I aspire to major in computer science because I believe that with our current rate of technological development, the ethics and moral questioning of AI potential will have to be reckoned with pronto. That belief stemmed originally from my appreciation of the Socratic paradox, for it is what has gotten me through my schooling without feeling constrained at times when I felt my education was getting in the way of my learning. Comprehending this paradox is just what defines human existence because the more humanity knows, the more ignorant we seem to become. Nevertheless, is this really such a terrible thing? I would argue like every other miracle, knowledge is just a conundrum in itself as well. Furthermore, I would also argue this enigma that outlines wisdom and creativity can be incorporated in artificial human like beings, in the robots we all have witnessed brutally attacking those innocent human beings in those dandy sci-fi films at some point. Science fiction is after all, simply that.

I have been raised with a life philosophy that philosophy itself as my mentor is what will (and it has already) open my mind to the possible consequences and miracles of smarter intelligence. It has led me to ponder how orga and mecha can be at ease together behind never ending discrimination at social, moral, and academic stand points, and so on. What can define a human when AI like medical implants are ready to aid them? Can an android philosophize and why can humans do that anyhow if a thought can be considered a sort of computation in itself? Without a doubt, I will be limitless in my questioning with the philosophy in AI and this is what truly excites me and will continue to. I want to bridge these moral gaps between the mental capacities of machines and organic beings, just like some want to bridge gaps between math and art or how the plumber wants to bridge gaps with pipes. It's simply a complicated desire.

I intend to use my computer science background I receive to let the world know that inevitably humans and AI can and will be collaborating through that very essence of inspiring intellectual engagement all can crave and understand at some point in their lives.